.\" Monitorix manpage.
.\" Copyright (C) 2005-2024 by Jordi Sanfeliu <jordi@fibranet.cat>
.\"
.\" This is the man page for the monitorix collector daemon.
.\"
.TH monitorix 8 "Nov 2024" 3.16.0 "Monitorix collector daemon"
.SH NAME
monitorix - a lightweight system monitoring tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmonitorix\fR \fB-c\fR configfile [\fB-p\fR pidfile] [\fB-d\fR none | graph[,graph] | all] [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-u\fR] [\fB-s\fR splitpolicy] [\fB-e\fR report=<timeframe>,graphs=<graph>[+graph][+graph...],to=<email>]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This Perl daemon starts the main Monitorix process, which gathers statistics about the system it is running on and stores this information in a set of RRD files.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fR \fIconfigfile\fR
The default location of the main configuration file varies depending on the operating system:
.P
.RS
Linux:        \fI/etc/monitorix/monitorix.conf\fP
.br
FreeBSD:      \fI/usr/local/etc/monitorix.conf\fP
.P
Extra configuration files can be placed in \fI/etc/monitorix/conf.d\fP, they will be loaded right after the main configuration file (overriding previous options).
.RE
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fIpidfile\fR
Stores the daemon's process ID into the specified file.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR none | graph[,graph] | all
Logs more information about what \fBmonitorix\fP is doing internally. The keys reflect if the data collected must be displayed on each case. If \fBall\fP is defined, the data collected of all enabled graphs will be shown. If \fBnone\fP is defined no data collected will be shown. Finally it is also possible to define a comma-separated list of graph names from which show their data collected.
.br
For a reference of all graph names check the option \fBgraph_name\fP in the \fImonitorix.conf\fP configuration file.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Displays version information.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR
This argument will prevent Monitorix from daemonizing, and hence, forcing it to run in foreground. This is specially useful for debugging purposes.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR
This option will force Monitorix to run under the regular user who started it. It's necessary to make sure that this user will have write permissions to the directory and files pointed by the options \fBbase_dir\fP, \fBbase_lib\fP and \fBlog_file\fP (either for \fImonitorix\fP and for the HTTP built-in server). Also, you must know that some graphs might not work because only the 'root' user is capable to get such statistics. Check the log files after starting Monitorix in this mode.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fIsplitpolicy\fR
This option decides which part of a line in the config file will be the key and which one will be the value. The split policy accepts the values \fIguess\fP (which is the default), \fIwhitespace\fP (which causes the Monitorix to split by whitespace) and \fIequalsign\fP (which causes it to split strictly by equal sign).
.TP
\fB\-e\fR report=\fItimeframe\fR,graphs=\fIgraph\fR[\fI+graph\fR][\fI+graph\fR...],to=\fIemail\fR
This option permits to send email reports unscheduled (i.e: at any time). You don't need to stop your current Monitorix instance, just execute a new one with the new parameter -e and once the job is done it will terminate itself, without affecting your current Monitorix instance. The following is an example of how to send an email report that includes the last day of \fIsystem\fR, \fIkernel\fR and \fIhptemp\fR graphs to the \fIuser@example.com\fR email address:
.P
.RS
# monitorix -c </etc/monitorix/conf.d/local.conf> -e report=daily,graphs=system+kern+hptemp,to=user@example.com
.P
This option requires to have previously enabled the \fIemailreports\fR module.
.RE
.SH SIGNALS
On receipt of a SIGHUP, \fBmonitorix\fP will close and reopen its log file (provided that it has a filename defined). This is useful in scripts which rotate and age log files.
.P
Note that the configuration file is not re-read.
.SH FILES
The following set of the files are created on every startup:
.TP 8
\fB<base_dir>/cgi/monitorix.conf.path\fP
Stores the path of \fIconfigfile\fP and other information.
.TP 8
\fB<base_dir>/cgi/monitorix.hplog\fP
Stores the output of \fIhplog\fP command.
.TP 8
\fB<base_dir>/index.html\fP
HTML main page.
.SH AUTHOR
Monitorix is written by Jordi Sanfeliu <jordi@fibranet.cat>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2005-2024 Jordi Sanfeliu
.br
Licensed under the GNU General Public License version 2 (GPLv2).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR monitorix.conf (5)
